Hey guys welcome back to the chorus.
So in the last couple of lectures we covered popular content types and we talked about content that
answers questions and content taking the form of lists this time around let's discuss popular content
types that are used to help us tell stories.
Storytelling has become a widely used tactic in content marketing because stories convey a deeper meaning
than any headline or tweet could do on its own by using stories.
You can set up scenarios you can explain how your product or business got involved or solved the problem
and share the outcome from a satisfied customers point of view.
You can also use images and videos along with data and quotes and provide a total picture of how and
why everything came together and worked.
People have reluctance buying things so why not show them the entire process and the happy ending outcome
without having them do anything but read with their eyeballs.
In this lecture lets discuss some storytelling content types.
The three types will cover our number one company stories.
Number two case studies and number three infographics.
Now when I mention company stories maybe the first thing you think of are those paragraphs you wrote
for the About Us page or the about the company page of your website.
Well Company stories are much more than that.
They dig into the reasons why a company was started the mission it hopes to achieve and the customers
out there hopes to help and support long into the future.
Company stories go beyond where or where you started your business.
What's right about why you started it.
Why did you make your first prototype of your product or app.
What problem are you trying to solve.
Did you have an idea you needed to share with the world.
Origins stories can be really interesting because many of us can identify with them.
We talk about how we started from the very beginning.
A lot of people reading it have not started a company or have not started a path to solving this problem
so they are also at the beginning.
It's very easy for them to connect now beyond your origin story.
You can also write about who's on your team now.
What makes them special.
What's the deal with your new office.
Why are you supporting this charity you keep talking about.
Now you might wonder why would customers care about any of this type of stuff.
Shouldn't we be focusing on the business and the product.
Well yes but here's the benefit.
Giving them an inside look into the company or the people or your story can help make companies more
approachable and more trustworthy.
It also helps you share your culture and your mission with them.
For customers it makes it look less like a faceless monolith and more like someone they might want to
connect with.
But let's not forget those customers because companies stories can also be about them.
Showcasing the great work your clients have done with your help is another way to prove your worth.
We stea for instance has a whole section on its site called Video inspiration.
It's full of examples from their clients.
In fact they're kind of like mini case studies describing you know like who the clients are and how
they use with these services.
So companies stories are a great opportunity for you to pull back the curtain and give people look at
who you are and why you do what you do as a business.
It's worth doing.
It creates a connection.
And guess what it's really easy to do because everybody knows their story.
You don't have to write like Shakespeare or Hemingway just write like how you remember it and then just
edit it for typos.
Now another kind of story that you can do is the second one I want to talk about which are case studies
now case studies in my opinion are excellent content types especially if you're an agency or a service
provider you guys should definitely pay attention to this one if I just described you if you have customers
who have used your product or service successfully and I know this doesn't describe everybody out there
well then you have you have a story that you can tell.
And of course this is a Siegman they give you permission to use their name to make sure that you get
their permission.
And in fact many people will be flattered that you even asked.
Usually the sell on a case study is pretty simple you just explain to them that it gives them exposure
and it highlights your product and how it works so it's usually a win win once you get there at that
point.
Just tell a story of why the customer saw you out.
What was their problem.
What are the problem actually look like in terms of numbers or how it affected their operations on a
day to day basis.
Why did they then pick you over other competitors.
Talk about how the implementation went or how they started using whatever you make if you can get data
like productivity went up 500 percent or we reduce expenses by 25 percent in the first month for this
company.
Then you can really make a strong case to other people as to why you should look into your product or
service.
Here's an example the University of Chicago inconveniently nicknamed where fun goes to die.
They have a news office and their news office was using an older version of Drupal the power of their
Web sites but they badly needed to update everything.
Drupal if you don't know it's basically like Word Press it's like Wordpress.
But as a smaller group of developers and group of people supporting it but the people that are for Drupal
are pretty intensely for Drupal it's kind of cold like anyway by working with project managers at Drupal
uteri Chicago's NEWSROOM was able to improve the design and speed of their Web sites and make it all
mobile friendly.
Drupal then shares many fine details about the entire process and a case study on its site.
It includes you Chicago's needs their goals for the upgrade Drupal process making it happen and why
it all work.
So if you were part of a similar kind of organization looking to update your content management system
you might be comparing Drupal and say WordPress as possible solutions.
Therefore reading Drupal in-depth case study about Chicago project could make you more confident in
them as an option or at least helps kind of visualize walking through the process with case studies.
Not only can you convince people considering your service but you can also attract people interested
in proving themselves.
In general case studies can be really powerful because unlike a lot of other marketing stuff you might
see or read.
This actually worked out.
These are actual results you can share.
When people decide to purchase your product or plead their case to a manager or someone writing the
checks case studies can go a long way towards actually closing the deal.
So weve talked about companies stories and weve all sort of a case study.
So for a lot of times those stories get told using written accounts perhaps some data or maybe some
great videos if you're lucky.
But another way to tell stories that some people forget about is through an info graphic and that's
the last one to discuss in this lecture.
Infographics come in many shapes sizes and forms and I'm Karen t you seen probably 100 of them.
The idea is to graphically tell a story in a visually engaging way usually by using a long vertical
image.
Sometimes you'll even find infographics with other content types embedded in it.
Here's an example from a company called Visual the you can take a guess.
They have a software that helps you make infographics.
OK now look at that one yeah it's kind of intense.
It's like a listicle inside of an info graphic content inception with an info graphic.
You can combine interesting numbers or data with explanations about what the data means.
It could mean graphing it all out show a trend or it could mean putting items in order to help the reader
understand the steps of a process.
Infographics catch people's attention because they look interesting but they ultimately get shared because
of the value they provide.
For example Quick Books is a company that provides accounting software and apps and part of their audience
is small businesses.
Go figure.
They created a nympho graphic about crowdfunding a topic small business owners might be interested in
and probably don't know a whole lot about.
The graphic uses visuals to quickly explain how it works.
The pros and cons and then it wraps up with a table comparing seven different services giving the reader
detail on how each one could meet their needs.
Pretty much everything you'd need to know if you're like hey I need to know about crowdfunding.
So how can you the person sitting at home make an info graphic for your business.
Well the process of creating one is pretty similar to just running a blog post.
You want to tell a story and share valuable instead of just using tax you'll rely heavily on visuals
which could be maps it could be icons can be pictures it could be charts just like a blog post it helps
to start out with an outline.
Stepping the reader through important concepts or interesting points but like many infographics.
Don't be afraid to put in cool call outs to things like pro tips or did you know type stuff.
Ok but how do we actually make them.
We know that you make an outline and an outline you list out your points that kind of tell a story.
Then you polish those points build those points out and secondarily and in call outs or prototypes are
things that are kind of tangential to the story narrative you're telling.
Ok but how do we actually put those together what often is that you can work with a designer if you
have the budget.
But you can also do more and kind of DIY ways of tackling it.
You can try.
Free tools like Kanva which they have a whole bunch of templates that you can just start with.
It's just Kanva dot com it's free.
Or you can find an artist on something like five or dot com.
We've mentioned five or probably 100 times to this point that's in other places tons of people who are
specialized in infographics.
You just give them the outline and pay them anywhere from five dollars to $500.
They'll get a an info graphic.
Really that's it.
I can't really go into more detail about how he would design it because at the end of the day you're
not going to design it unless you are a designer in which case why are you asking the question how do
I make infographics.
You have the tools yourself the option for us non designers is probably going to be hiring someone using
a service site like fiber or using tools ourselves like Kanva or like visually or if you don't like
visually you can also use call info graphic making software there's a lot of them are that's three different
content types that can really help you tell great stories of the company story.
Case studies I mean infographics each one has its own benefits so make sure you consider each one.
All right so in the next letter.